# The Smart Home Data Layer

__A portable and interoperable data standard for household services.__

Paving the way toward true data ownership and a secure authentication and authorisation system for data management.

### Base Schemas

* Space - Encapsulates a set of services
* Service - An instance of an active product in use from a supplier
* Service Usage - Usage & transactional data of a particular resource
* Device - A physical device
* Product - Defines a particular offering from a supplier, e.g a tariff, deal or bundle
* Supplier - An external organisation. This data could be hosted externally

### Access Control

Work in progress. Ideas:

* Define a specific set of OpenId Connect type claims for general access
* Be able to describe access to specific services within a space and the specific operations each user is permitted to carry out
* User access - e.g for shared homes multiple users might be permitted to access and modify data
* Application access - e.g a home energy monitoring system, a comparison website, a smart device's management software (e.g home battery)

### Operations

Defines a set of standard operations available to execute on data. Work in progress. Ideas:

* REST style CRUD operations on all data entities.
* Additional useful operations, e.g:
  * Personal projection
  * Execute function in sandboxed context on specific data and callback

### Usage

1. A data store is set up to store data and allow operations on that data
2. Users access is defined on that data
3. Applications are permitted access to data and to perform certain operations
4. Aggregation systems (defined as a single app) can be granted access to a data store and in turn delegate access to other apps

### Goals

1. Better data management & access management of smart home data for consumers. E.g all communications (e.g device to device, app to device) going through the SHDL could be easily logged and monitored. User's could easily view all of their data in one place, move their data to new homes.
2. Interoperability between external systems, e.g an app built for one aggregator should work for another aggregator, an external tak management app (e.g IFTT) should be able to more easily build integrations based on this common standard
3. Interoperability between internal systems, e.g a smart fridge should be able to more easily communicate with a smart battery based on a common standard

### Supporters

* [Homebox](https://homebox.io)
* Acasa
* Mespo
* Social Consumer

### Future Goals

* Expand to include data on and generated by *devices* as well as services in the home.
